Before I started pioneering, I was really nervous that I wouldn't be able to get my
time in every month.
It was a bit hard when I started pioneering because I didn't have a car.
My boss, he didn't give me part-time work.
I found it really hard to balance schoolwork and pioneering at the same time.
My biggest struggle was fear of man, so that really hindered me because I wasn't very
good at talking to people.
Having a good routine was a struggle.
My brother and I are the only ones in the truth.
My family didn't understand why we wanted to go preaching.
I didn't think that I'd make a good pioneer.
I've had type 1 diabetes since I was 5, so I was always worried about whether or not
I could balance that health condition with the pioneering.
Challenges don't seem that big now, but back at that time there were a really big deal,
but the coolest thing was how would you help me?
Prior to Jehovah helped me overcome my fears.
My family were a massive help from Jehovah because my dad was the one who first encouraged
me to pioneer.
When I did start pioneering, I hit promise that I would have the full support of my family.
When I spoke to brothers and sisters who spent their youth in the full-time service,
that really helped me because it was really encouraging and it really motivated me to
want to make my own memories and my own experiences in the full-time service.
They were practical things I could do.
I didn't have a car.
I just walked or I caught the bus.
I had to work out what my priorities were first, so I had to find out how many hours
did I have to go missing every week, so then I just sat down and I looked at every day
and planned out which days I could go missing, which days I had to go to school and also
allocate time so that I could do my homework and study.
Having a schedule was really good because I could see it all out in front of me and
I could see that the hour requirement was actually attainable, so that made it a lot
less daunting.
I first set short-term goals of pioneering and especially months of activity.
Then I was able to begin continuous auxiliary and then eventually I started regular pioneering.
One of the best things I did to prepare myself for pioneering was to auxiliary pioneer beforehand.
It really set me up to be able to overcome any challenges that I faced while I was pioneering.
I thought about Melika R310.
I knew I trusted in Jehovah but this was my chance to test him out.
I trained, put my trust in Jehovah and put my application in.
After my form was in for pioneering a brother with time, a brother called me and I put him in work.
I had unemployment for three months which wasn't a good time but during that time I had
Jehovah as my main focus and so he supported me and he didn't let me down.
Asking brothers and sisters to come and work with me maybe on days that I knew that
I wouldn't get as much support really helped, that helped me to organise my hours a little
bit more and also I'd get to know my brothers and sisters more as well.
One of the greatest joys of pioneering has been to Pioneer with Mum and we had the privilege
of going to the Pioneer School together which was really special.
Sam 16-Lasid reminds me that Jehovah is right beside me.
When I'm preaching, it's like Jehovah is holding my hand.
So with full time of service, I love making Jehovah happy with everything he's given me
and finally able to give something back.
Looking back, pioneering it was the best decision I've ever made.
It's opened up so many different avenues of service to Jehovah and it helped me also to
have that real desire to want to stay in full time service.
Helping someone on the road to everlasting life is the best feeling ever and it's really
a replacement.
The only thing I can say, as a young person, start pioneering.